Hi there in this lesson let's see how we can avoid the race condition which we saw in the previous lesson
.
It was because the class was not correct.
If this is the make with dogmatic and visit that this method needs to execute as a single economic unit
in order to avoid the undesirable outcome of a drawing.
And for that we can use the jealous berichten locking mechanism called synchronization on going off
and going to the agent is to protect critical data which is shared and also mutable like the balance
instance variable in our example.
In fact we also how items 5:54 from Effective Java which is synchronize access to shared data and synchronization
ensures data protection by dis allowing threats from interfering with each other when we're talking
about synchronization we are talking about a block of code which needs to be synchronized on this block
of code.
Can one or more statements on a synchronized block basically contains parts.
One is a lock which acts like a real lock and we will look at that and the other is a block of code
which needs to be guarded by this lock on this block of code would be the critical data that needs to
be protected like the checking of the balance and the subsequent New Balance computation in our bank
account example and that lock here is nothing but a reference to an object.
And here is how a synchronized block looks like we will have the synchronized keyword followed by an
object reference in the parenthesis which acts as a lock and it is followed by a block of code and Caly
basis.
And here is an example.
Here we have them a third go which includes a synchronized block.
The lock is simply that this reference so reference to current object is serving as the lock on inside
the synchronized block.
We have the critical stuff on outside.
We have the non-critical stuff.
And let's see how locks work.
Always keep in mind that every object has a single lock and every thread and during a synchronized block
will automatically acquire the lock and will release it either upon exiting the synchronized block or
if an exception is generated within the synchronized block.
An important thing here to note is that at most one threat can why the objects lock.
As mentioned earlier an object has only a single lock on that block cannot be shared across the decks
.
This way only one thread gets to manipulate the critical data.
So if a thread wants to enter a synchronized block but the lock is unavailable which means that some
other thread has already acquired it.
In this case the thread goes into the blocked state.
So the template for the lock to be released by the current threat.
And once that lock is available again it put it quite it and then would enter the synchronized block
.
Look at more than one third could be waiting for the lock.
In that case once the lock is available only one of them will get to it an it ular will decide who that
lucky protests and this building locks associated with objects are called as intrinsic or mounted deadlocks
.
So that's the thing every object has a lock that needs to be acquired before entering gringas synchronized
block which protects critical data.
This way we cannot have race conditions as only one thread gets to use the entire synchronized block
next to synchronize method.
It is simply a shorthand for a synchronized block and we simply use the key word synchronized in the
method declaration and with that the matter is guarded by a lock on here the lock is simply the object
on which the method is invoked.
At this Bangkit called object does not have a race condition and this direct.
As mentioned earlier every object has a single lock so locks are but objects are not Marmelade.
So what it means is that if one threat has acquired an object's lock then no other thread Ginter any
of the objects synchronized methods here the lock would have been acquired by entering a synchronized
block or by entering this method.
And it is important to remember at this particular point.
And let's also do a bit of shooting here.
It will be one of the quiz questions too.
So keep that in mind and you may even be asked about it in an interview.
And here is another quick question on a potential question to a third going under any unsynchronized
method of the object.
Even if Glock is already acquired by some other threat so not a strict sions with unsynchronized amateurs
as they are do not build with critical data.
And here is an interesting one.
It's tactics and Grise methods use class object as a lock.
So every class has a single lock on every object also has a single lock Soviet using synchronization
to coordinate access to shared variables -- notably variables but there are a couple of important
things we need to know.
When it comes to coordinating access to shared variables crusting is that we need to use synchronization
everywhere.
The is just one instance that's going to get a bank account plus we have the make with Dolemite that
which is synchronized.
Now let's see if you also have this get automatic get balance between it and the balance around you
.
Now let's say John's track is inside.
Make the document that trying to $.75.
Let's say there is enough balance on the new balance of dollar 25 if it's competitor.
Let's also say that after the New Balances computer but before John Street exits to make with dogmatic
on Anita outstretched accesses get balanced about that which is not synchronized in this case.
There is a chance that it thread will still get a value of dollar hundred rather than the new balance
off dollar 25.
It means you dollar.
Only if I do but there is no guarantee.
So basically in a multi-threaded program if it dragged right so gladly you into a variable.
There is no guarantee that the renewables new value will be visible to another thread trying to read
that variable's value and it has been kept that way mainly for performance results as such into strict
coordination can harm the performance.
We may discuss why it is that way but for now it is good enough to know that it's got something to do
with romance but if we want to get into here that it does today we'll see the most recent value of balance
that maybe are better.
But don't sell it then we need to synchronize the get balance method as well as synchronized.
Any other place where balance variable is used and this is also discussed in item 5:54 which was mentioned
earlier.
So synchronization means not only just mutual exclusion but also reliable communication between threats
.
And we may get back to this in a follow up lesson well there are some alternative ways to also achieve
reliable communication.
Now the second important thing to note about coordinating access to shared multiple with is that always
use the same lock when guarding the CMS shared multiple variables.
That is do not guard a variable using one lock at one place and using some other lock at some other
place.
And here is an example.
So once again it is a bank account example.
And we have the synchronized make with dogmatics and we also know how that method called deposit which
actually uses a synchronized block that is guarding the same balance variable as some deposit is being
added.
Now the synchronized method as we know use us bank account objects block that is the object on which
the method has been invoked.
Hollywood the deposit method is using a string object reference as the lock on that should not be done
.
So two different clocks are being used.
You got the same variable.
And so the effect of synchronization is lost.
That is John an ostrich can be using synchronous stuff concurrently for instance lets say the bank account
has only 25 bucks and John wants to withdraw a dollar seventy 75.
So let's as you John request on it to transfer 75 bucks from her personal account to this joint account
and that's all you got in a hurry on both axes of the system at around the same time and let's say on
it AUSTRAC gets into the deposit met that and also into the synchronized block.
But before the deposit is added sugar switches to Jon Stewart and Jon Stewart will execute make with
donga method to completion and we find that there isn't enough balance and once Jon Stewart exits make
that Dawn unattested that will come back into running state and their deposit.
So John is still unable to withdraw the money just because the court was using different clocks.
Maybe not a great example.
But we shouldn't be doing this.
Also normally an object's intrinsic clock is used to guard the shared mutable state.
So that's about it.
In less than 30 seconds.
Let's also go ahead and make our make with Dolemite.
Synchronized so that we can get rid of the race condition.
OK here it is the bank account example and we know that the bank account object was not active.
So let's just go ahead and make the make that automatic synchronized.
Now we are good.
I mean if we execute we can see that that is no longer the interleaving between the tracks.
So John has withdrawn 75 bucks and when it dies trying to withdraw is not enough balance.
OK.
So that's synchronization.
And in the previous season we also Lubet another classical idea generator which was generating unique
IDs and it hard to get new ID and it could return the same ID on two different locations because the
object was not turret's.
So once again if we make unsynchronized it would work fine.
So that's about it that's about synchronization.
Thank you.
I'm happy Cody